Many object surfaces are composed of layers of different physical
substances, known as layered surfaces. These surfaces, such as patinas,
water colors, and wall paintings, have more complex 
optical properties than diffuse surfaces. 
Although the characteristics of layered surfaces,
like layer opacity, mixture of colors, and color gradations, are
significant, they are usually 
ignored in the analysis of many methods in computer vision, causing
inaccurate or even erroneous results. 
Therefore, the main goals of this paper are twofold: to solve problems of
layered surfaces by focusing mainly on 
surfaces with two layers (i.e., top and bottom layers), and to
introduce a decomposition method based on a novel
representation of a nonlinear correlation in the color space that we call the
"spider" model. 
% 
When we plot a mixture of colors of one bottom layer
and $n$ different top layers into the RGB color space,
then we will have $n$ different curves intersecting at one point, resembling
the shape of a spider. 
Hence, given a single input image containing one bottom layer and at
least one top layer,  
we can fit their color distributions by using the spider model and
then decompose those 
layered surfaces. 
%
%
The last step is equivalent to extracting the
approximated optical properties of the two layers:
the top layer's opacity, and the top and bottom layers' reflections.
Experiments with real images, which include the photographs of ancient wall paintings, show
the effectiveness of our method. 

The surface of most natural objects contains a number of layers with
different physical substances. For instance, human skin is composed of
at least two layers: epidermis and dermis.
% 
Each of these layers has
distinct optical properties, such as opacity and reflectance, 
and this kind of surface is known as layered surfaces. 
The total reflection from such a surface, and therefore its appearance,
is determined by those optical properties.
As an illustration, let us consider a two-layered surface with different colors.
The appearance of the surface is the mixture of the colors governed by the opacity of the top layer.
If the opacity changes gradually across the surface,
then the mixture of the colors will change accordingly, as depicted in
 Fig. \ref{fig:catch_result}.a.
Other examples of layered surfaces are leaves,
biological tissues, patinas, and some paintings including wall paintings.  
